Handling Presentational role conflict resolution (#1189)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/aria-state-or-property-permitted-5c01ea.md

## Accessibility Support

- There exist popular web browsers and assistive technologies which do not correctly implement [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][].

> - Some browsers expose elements which are [focusable][] but have an `aria-hidden="true"` attribute, while some hide them.

Reviewer: I haven't looked through everything yet... but it seems that if this is an issue with implementation by browsers and AT, then the ACT rules and examples should be based on the standard, and anomalies listed in the Accessibility Support for awareness.

<div role="combobox" aria-controls="">My combobox</div>
```

#### Passed Example 9

This `aside` element has an [explicit role][] of `none`. However, the [global][] [property][] `aria-label` is specified. Thus it has a [semantic role][] of `complementary` due to [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][]. The `aria-expanded` [state][] is [inherited][] for the `complementary` role.

```html

> <aside role="none" aria-label="About ACT rules" aria-expanded="true">ACT rules are cool!</aside>

Author: The specs seems pretty clear to me on that point.

And both Chrome and Firefox do expose elements like this. Edge doesn't but Edge without Chromium is kinda dead, I guess…

https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/wiki/Tests-on-Presentational-role-Conflict-resolution

> <aside role="none" aria-label="About ACT rules" aria-expanded="true">ACT rules are cool!</aside>

Reviewer 2: The behavior of AT here is not consistent. JAWS does not report the expanded state. NVDA only reports it in Firefox.

Author: @daniel-montalvo my problem when writing these examples was to find something:
- with an implicit role (to trigger conflict resolution vs `role="none"`); and
- the implicit role has some specific (non-global) ARIA attributes (because the global ones are always allowed and this rule is pointless for them); and
- the element is not focusable by default (because focusable takes precedence over the presentational role conflict resolution, so if the element is focusable it will be exposed anyway and that doesn't test the other part of the conflict resolution (exposing global attribute)) (this exclude things like `button` or links…); and
- the ARIA attribute is not set to a correct value by the AAM (because if it's already set, having it explicit is a bad practice and overwriting it to a non-default value is likely a bad practice also if there is no context to explain it) (this exclude things such as `aria-level` on headings, or `aria-posinset` on list which have correct default value).

With all these constraints, I had a somewhat limited choice… Another possibility would have been `<section><h1 aria-level=2>Foo</h1></section>` but it's in itself a bit tricky why this `h1` needs its level to be changed (and requires the `section` as context), so I ended up choosing this as a decent example where the code shown is simple and not bad practice…

I'll be happy to change it if you figure out some other case that would fit within the constraints above…

```

#### Passed Example 10

This `aside` element has an [explicit role][] of `none`. However, it is [focusable][] due to the `tabindex` attribute (even if it is excluded from sequential focus order). Thus it has a [semantic role][] of `complementary` due to [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][]. The `aria-expanded` [state][] is [supported][] for the `complementary` role.

```html

> <aside role="none" tabindex="-1" aria-expanded="true">ACT rules are cool!</aside>

Author: I agree that the specs are not clear on what to do with `tabindex=-1`.
But on that point, Chrome, Edge and Firefox all agree to expose the element anyway (and yes, it gets very hard to remove role from `button` that are not `disabled`…)
(and, for examples, heading exposed that way are further shown in NVDA, except on top of Edge because Edge doesn't fallback to the implicit role)
https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/wiki/Tests-on-Presentational-role-Conflict-resolution

I am not sure we should be writing for uncertain plans in ARIA 1.3…

> <aside role="none" tabindex="-1" aria-expanded="true">ACT rules are cool!</aside>

Reviewer 2: The behavior of AT here is not consistent. JAWS does not report the expanded state. NVDA only reports it in Firefox.

<button aria-sort="">Sort by year</button>
```

#### Failed Example 3

> This `aside` element has an [explicit role][], and a [semantic role][], of `none`. The `aria-expanded` [state][] in neither [inherited][], [supported][] nor [required][] for this role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `aside` element has an [explicit role][], and a [semantic role][], of `none`. The `aria-expanded` [state][] is neither [inherited][], [supported][] nor [required][] for this role.
```
Even if we want to keep it, we should correct that little typo.

#### Inapplicable Example 2

> `aria-sort` property is neither inherited, supported, nor required for role `button`, but the element is not [included in the accessibility tree][] because it is not rendered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`aria-sort` property is neither inherited, supported, nor required for role `button`. In addition, the element is not [included in the accessibility tree][] because it is hidden to everybody using CSS.
```
I think the element is rendered, though it is not displayed because of the `display:none;` style. Anyway, I think it helps clarify the description.
